#summary roadmap for the Mortar system and the Mortar module
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This document is the official roadmap for the project. Features for upcoming versions, their expected release dates, and their owners are listed below. This document is focused purely on new features- bug fixes and smaller changes are ongoing and should be expected with every release.

As this document is the official Roadmap it should only be updated by release owners. Feature requests can be added through the issue tracker (and please feel free to add any ideas you might have), and discussion of the roadmap (or anything else for that matter) should be directed to the development list.

= Core/System =

== 0.4 ==

Release Date : *December 4th, 2009*<br>
Release Owner : *charlequin*

  * Twig Integration
  * RSS Support
  * TagBox Support
  * Rewrite of the URL subsystem.
  * URL Extension mapping to Format 
  * Canonical URLs
  * Maintenance Mode
  * User Listings
  * Support for mapping models to multiple tables.


== 0.5 ==

Release Date : *December 25th, 2009*<br>
Release Owner : *tedivm*

  * Core Updater
  * Non-location Model Routing 
  * User Read
  * Group Listing/Read
  * Update Twig to newest release

== 0.6 ==

Release Date : *tbd*<br>
Release Owner : *charlequin*

  * Advanced ORM
  * Diff Algorithm
  * User Add/Edit
  * Group Add/Edit

== 0.7 ==

  * Initial Mural Creation (theme module)
  * Theme Preview

== 1.0 ==

  * Multilingual support
  * REST-Interface (partially complete)
  * User Management Interface
  * Site Management Interface
  * Menu/Sidebar Management
  * Admin Dashboard view
  * !MortarShell (Interactive Shell)
  * Theme Options -- manage themes, select default themes for sites/areas, configuring themes for user skinning
  * Theme Icon Sets (select and use)
  * Twig Extensions
  * Permissions-setting for optional modules
  * Memcache cache storage engine
  * sqlite3 cache storage engines

= Module Roadmaps =

Each of these modules has their own roadmap. The goal is for each of them to be at 1.0 for Mortar itself to reach version 1.0.

  * [roadmapQuarry Quarry]
  * [roadmapLitho Litho]
  * [roadmapWiki Wiki]
  * [roadmapChalk Chalk]
  * [roadmapRubble Rubble]
  * [roadmapMural Mural]
  * [roadmapForum Forum]